Hello everyone. Welcome to a new episode of The
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lopes, and
today I'm joined again by Doctor Richard Wolff, and
we're going to talk about economic inequality from a
Marxist perspective and how and why we should tax
the rich. So, Doctor Wolff, welcome back to the
show. It's always a pleasure to everyone.
Very glad to be here and I enjoyed my
conversations with you very much.
Thank you. So, uh, how do you approach the
topic of economic inequality from a Marxist perspective and
what drives economic inequality?
OK, uh, the Marxist perspective makes this an easy
question to answer. Inequality which has haunted human communities
for a long time, is a problem that has
also always haunted capitalism. Whatever role it played in
feudalism, slavery, or ancient economies, it has always been
a problem of capitalism. Uh, IF you are familiar
with literature, you will know that most of the
greatest literature, Charles Dickens, Emile Zola, Maxim Gorky, uh,
Jack London, I could go on, are magnificent studies
of, among other things, the inequality produced and reproduced
by capitalism. Another way of saying the same thing
is that capitalism itself has recognized its tendency to
inequality because it has tried in every way to
cope with the inequality because it is fearful that
if you make too many people too poor, they
will turn against the capitalist system. Which has already
happened and I can assure you will happen again.
Indeed, if you look at September 10th, uh, activities
across the country known as France, or if you
look at the turmoil in Nepal, or you look
at the turmoil in the United States, much of
it is about inequality and how people feel about
it. Last thing, The home, the dominant country of
capitalism over the last century has been the United
States, as most people know. Mhm. OK, the United
States is a study in the failure of capitalism.
To end the inequality that even many capitalists recognize
to be a problem. They can't solve it, and
the reason capitalists can't solve the problem of inequality
is because to do so would require to get
rid of the capitalism itself. And to make it
as dramatic as I know how, last week in
the United States, The Tesla Corporation, one of the
world's large corporations that produces the famous Tesla electric
automobiles and trucks, Offered its own CEO, that is
the board of directors, about 20 people, offered Mr.
Musk, the CEO who's on the board. That board
offered one of its own members a 10-year contract
for $1 trillion. Which is interesting for two reasons.
It is the largest offer of a salary ever
made to any CEO anywhere in the world ever.
And number 2, it is an offer made to
a person who is already the richest person on
this planet. Whose personal wealth is currently estimated at
between 3 and $400 billion. OK, that is an
out of control activity. It is like a bad
joke. It is a demonstration that in capitalism, You
make the rich richer and everybody else poorer. 40
years ago, 50 years ago, in the, in the
decades immediately after World War II, the United States
was less unequal than most of the European countries.
Today, the United States is more unequal than the
European countries. Why? Because it has been the home
of capitalism, and capitalism produces, reproduces inequality. Only making
it worse decade after decade unless and until there's
an uprising of the people who say no more.
Then you can see it reduced for a while,
but the minute the popular uprising is over, the
basic mechanism of capitalism producing inequality resumes. Now, let
me give you, if, if, if I can, uh,
a basic explanation for why this happens. Capitalism is
a peculiar economic system. In that it relates to
groups of people in every capitalist workplace, every factory,
every office, every store. In these institutions, if they're
organized in a capitalistic way, a small number of
people, the owner of the enterprise, The leading. Executive,
the board of directors, if it's a modern corporation,
which is a tiny group of people. Boards of
directors are usually between 8 and 9 and 20
people. That's it. The vast majority of the people
in every workplace are the employees. The people at
the top who run the enterprise are the employer.
According to the United States Census, 3% of our
people are employers, and that includes the self-employed. The
other 97% are not. Employers, they are employees. OK.
The employer in capitalism makes the following decisions. And
the employees are excluded from these decisions what to
produce. What technology to use, where to conduct the
production. And what to do with the output or
if you like the revenue from selling the output,
which is what the employer does. The employer decides
how to distribute the revenue of the company. And
guess what? The employers, that small group, distribute the
lion's share of the revenue to themselves. As shareholders,
they get dividends, and as top executives, they get
stock options and salaries, and all the rest. And
that way of distributing the output we all help
to produce means that the mass of people get
very little and the employer class is the rich
people in our culture. So you have built into
the organization of capitalism, the mechanisms whereby some are
rich and most are not.
So let me ask you this question then, because
this is something that very often we hear from
capitalists, from people who defend capitalism as an economic
system. Is economic inequality in any way? Quote unquote
natural, should we expect it to occur just naturally,
or is it the result of how the economic
and the political system are structured?
Well, from a Marxian perspective, which is what I'm
offering to you here, it is absolutely a matter
of social decision-making, social debate, social conflict, social arrangements.
It has, there's nothing natural about it. Uh, IT
has always, always been the effort of those at
the top. To give a natural explanation or a
natural foundation to their wealth, because that's a way
of persuading people that there's no point in trying
to change this because it's natural. It's as if
you were shaking your fist at the sky. When
it rains, you can shake your fist all you
want. The sky has its own mechanisms. It's a
natural process. The water is evaporated from the oceans,
goes up into the clouds, and then comes down
on us as rain around and around. It's natural.
In the days of slavery, masters told the slaves
that slavery was just natural. Some people were born
to be masters, and others were born to be
slaves. In feudalism, the lords told that to the
serfs, or they had the church tell the serfs.
That's what God wanted. That one is to be
a lord, that one is to be a serf.
So it is very natural that in capitalism, the
capitalists would try to give a naturalistic explanation for
what they are doing, but I don't believe it.
I don't believe the mass of people believe it.
It is an idea put forward by the capitalists
to justify their situation, but it's outlived its usefulness
if it ever had any.
And also a very interesting kind of argument that
we commonly hear from capitalists is that capitalism is
a system that is in accordance with human nature,
but I mean it doesn't make much sense to
say that an economic system that has only existed
for the past. Around 300 years in 200,000 or
300,000 years that we have existed as Homo sapiens.
As anything to do with something natural or
right. Yeah, it is a very strange argument uh
to make for me, it has exactly the same
nonsense as naturalism. It, it's not in nature that
we have capitalism and it's not in human nature
either. But again, I would tell you that every
effort. Every defensive effort by people with privilege is
to try desperately to explain their privilege in a
way that will prevent or undermine the effort of
the non-privileged to change the situation. This is an
ideological game. You want, you, you're afraid. Why are
you afraid? Very simple. Because the rich are always
few and the poor are always many, so the
rich have always understood that makes them vulnerable if
the mass of people get together. They will be
able to do what they want, and the small
group of the rich will not be able to
stop them, so they have learned long ago, you
must try as best you can. To shape the
thinking of the mass of people so they don't
get together to change the system, and one of
the ways you do that is to explain that
nature makes it this way or that God makes
it this way, or that the human brain is
simply made this anything to get people not to
get together. To not try to make a change.
I, I want to underscore. When things get unequal
enough, the mass of people usually overcome these ideological
programs and get together and make exactly the changes
that they were told they couldn't do. I will
give you an example. In the 1930s we had
the worst collapse of capitalism in its history. From
1929 to 1941, we had a 12-year global economic
depression. It's called the Great Depression for that reason.
Here in the United States, the working class Unemployed
by the millions at that time. ROSE up and
moved politically to the left. They joined the CIO,
the union movement here. It was a unionization wave.
We've never had it in the United States. We've
never had it before the 1930s. We've never had
it since the 1930s. But in that Great Depression,
tens of millions of American workers joined unions. And
tens of thousands of American workers joined two socialist
parties and a communist party, and the Communist Party
and the two socialist parties and the CIO unions
worked together. And here's what they did. They radically
reduced the inequality of wealth and income in this
country. Radically. If you look at the inequality chart
of the 20th century, you'll see inequality very high
until the Great Depression, then it drops like a
stone, and then once the war, World War II
is over, it resumes to where we are today.
But what the 1930s proved was that if the
mass of people get together and if they have
in their minds a left-wing Heavily influenced by Marx,
by the way, attitude, they can in fact make
for changes. We have in the United States today,
a pension, a public pension program. If you become
over 65 years of age, you are entitled to
get what we call here Social Security. That was
created by the workers during the 1930s. We also
have, if you lose your job here, you get
unemployment compensation. That was a program never existed before,
created by the radical workers in the 1930s. We
have a minimum wage. We never had that before.
That was created in the 19, I could go
on, but all of the efforts to do something.
WERE made by opponents of capitalism against capitalism, and
as soon as capitalism overcame that opposition. It resumed
its internal mechanisms, so we are back now to
what, to what the United States is now more
extremely unequal than it has ever been in my
lifetime, and I was born and lived all my
life here in the United States. The level of
inequality that I see around me every day. IS
the extreme, more so than ever before, and it
is, in case you haven't noticed, tearing this country
apart internally.
So on what grounds would you make a case
for taxing the rich? Why should we tax the
rich or why should we tax them more?
The answer is we need to tax the rich
because if we're going to have government programs, which
this system needs, There's no other way to pay
for them. We are now at that point. That's
part of the economic crisis of the United States
today. We have a rule. You cannot tax corporations
and the rich. And the reason that rule is
observed is that our political system depends on donations
of money from the corporations and the rich, and
they only support candidates in either party who will
observe the rule don't tax corporations. And the rich
leave the taxes on them very, very low. So
where has the system gone to raise money? Answer
for a while, 1945 to 1975, you might say,
it pushed the burden of taxes onto the working
class. The way that if you're interested, the way
that was done was you stopped using the income
tax, which is a progressive tax, and you shifted
to what is called a payroll tax in which
everybody is taxed the same percentage. Which means that
the richer you are, the, the less important the
tax is for you, and the poorer you are,
the worse it is for you. After 1975, the
working class said no more taxes. So then the
government took the next step. Instead of taxing people
to pay for the government, it borrowed the money.
Let me give you an example. In 1970, the
total debt borrowing of the United States government was
$300 billion. Today, it's $37 trillion. The borrowing has
gone up faster than anything else. The government borrows,
but here comes the joke. Who does the government
borrow from? Answer, corporations and the rich. They're the
only ones who have the money that can lend
to the government. So what the government did is
not tax corporations. And then go to them and
say, the money we didn't tax from you, please
lend it to us. Because we will pay you
back in 5 or 10 years, and we will
pay you interest every year. So for corporations and
the rich, this was a funny joke. Instead of
taxes, you have an investment. Of course, they supported
it. But now the government has borrowed so much
money, and by the way, this is the same
in England, this is the same in France, this
is the same in Germany and Italy. This is
not unique to the United States. But at this
point corporations and the rich have told the government.
We won't lend you any more money because you're
so deep in debt, it isn't safe to lend
you money anymore. We won't let you tax us.
We won't lend you any money, and the government
goes back to the capitalists and says, Then we
can't function. And then comes Mr. Trump and people
like him. And they come up with another few
years, we can go on. Here's what we will
do. We will tax the people. But we'll do
it in a way that fools them. That's called
a tariff. So what Mr. Trump does is he
says, I'm going to go after the companies that
bring goods into the United States from other parts
of the world, and they will have to pay
a tax. So he gets money from the government.
But he knows what, what those companies will do
is turn around and raise the prices to the
public for what comes in. So the, the bottle
of French wine will be double in price. And
the cup of latte coffee in the morning will
be double in price. Why? Because French wine comes
from France, and the coffee doesn't grow in the
United States. So Americans drink coffee every day. So
that, for example, the largest importer of coffee brings
coffee from Brazil. So, Mr. Trump hits Brazil with
a big tariff. Up goes the price of the
coffee, but they know that the companies will push
the burden of that tax onto the people, but
it won't look like the government. It will look
like prices, and they can blame the Brazilians, or
they can blame the Chinese, anybody else. It gives
them a few, it won't work very well. It
won't work very long, and the American working class
is horrified by the inflation. But it gives them
another few years. And let me underscore something for
your audience. The United States is now a desperate
country. The way to understand Mr. Trump and what
you read about him and the United States. We're
desperate. The American empire is shrinking. A whole new
empire is arising around China and the BRICS. Everybody
with half a brain sees it. There's no future
here. They can't borrow anymore. They dare not tax
the rich, and the working class is on the
edge of an explosion. They don't know what to
do. And so they have a a a a
a president who acts like a tough guy, who
shoots boats in the ocean near Venezuela because they
might have a drug on the boat and he
kills people over there, and he stands behind the
genocide in Israel on and on and on. These
are the behavior of desperate politicians. They don't know
what to do. And you know, in a certain
way, it's not even their fault. They have been
asked to do an impossible task. They are supposed
to rescue American capitalism when it is in a
period of terminal decline. We had the American Empire.
It replaced the British Empire. The British Empire, we
all know, is over. What you don't know, but
you should, is that the American empire is now
in a process of dying. And you're watching the
death behavior of a dying empire. Don't be fooled.
It's all bravado, it's all show, it's all public
relations, but the reality, radically different.
OK, so let me ask you or let me
confront you with one of the arguments we most
commonly hear from capitalists whenever the left talks about
taxing the rich, and this is something that actually
we also heard back in May when we had
our general elections here in Portugal because the one
of the. Leftist parties, the leftist bloc, proposed taxing
the rich a little bit more, and another party,
a neo-liberal party, the Liberal Initiative, immediately brought up
this argument about, oh, if you try taxing the
rich, they will leave the country, they will take
their companies with them. Uh, AND with it the
jobs they have created, and they will be, there
will be massive unemployment and the economy will collapse.
I mean, is any of this true?
No. The short answer is no, and these arguments
have exactly the same force and power as the
notion that it's human nature or nature or God
or something else that makes all these things happen.
Let me explain on several levels. First of all,
there's much evidence, and I could show it to
you if you had the time. Of cities, states,
and whole countries that have raised taxes on the
rich and have not seen a significant exodus of
wealthy people. Uh, IT, that's just a, a, a,
a, a threat, but it has very little behind
it, and, and you shouldn't be surprised. There are
many reasons human beings live, for example, in Lisbon,
Portugal, or in Paris, France, or in New York
City, where I am, as I speak to you.
They don't, they're not just here because of the
taxes, that's ridiculous. They're here because the city of
New York offers a quality of life you can't
get anywhere else in the United States. You can't
even get it close. Not even in Chicago or
Los Angeles or or one of the few other
large cities. This is the intellectual, the financial, and
the artistic center of the United States. And the
people who live here want to live here. They
want the restaurants. They want the museums. They want
the movies, the theater, the opera, all of it.
You tax them, and especially they're rich, cause what
do they care? You tax them, they will grumble,
they don't want to, but they won't leave because
that is for them, not an attractive option at
all. They can take all their money, leave the
United States, leave New York City, and then they
won't be able with all the money they've saved
to buy the things they come to New York
to enjoy. That's the first, and there's empirical evidence.
But now, let me give you, uh, the better
response. The the better response that we make here
in the United States because we get the same
arguments here that you got in Portugal. We make
two big arguments. The first one is If we
raise taxes on you, And you threatened to take
your business, your factory, your office, your store. Away,
we will seize your business, and you won't have
one anymore. So, before you do anything else, you
think carefully about what we know who you are,
we have your records, we know where your factory
or your office is located. You leave here within
22 or 4 or 6 years after we raise
taxes, we seize your company and your assets. OK,
so, be careful. Now, #2, even more important. The
minute you leave. And we seize your assets, we
will convert your business from a capitalist enterprise into
a worker co op. The jobs will be retained.
Nobody will go unemployed because this business will continue.
The only difference is it won't be yours anymore.
It will belong to the collective of workers. By
the way, this happened in Argentina. You may know
the story some years ago when the capitalists left
and the workers took over. Well, here it would
be assisted, and how will the government function? The
government will say, we will help the transition from
a capitalist to a worker co op. And we
will also help finance the worker co op to
get it through the transition from a capitalist to
a worker co op. And finally, and finally, we
will lead a movement across this country. Urging our
citizens. Please buy the products of X, the worker
co op, because that will preserve the jobs of
these people. It will preserve the economic viability of
our community. And it will punish the people who
refused to pay their fair share of taxes and
threatened to shut their industries and hurt all of
us. If you want that publicity about yourself, go
ahead, try it. You will regret the day you
thought of this. By the way, I have been,
just so you know, I have been in a
position to make speeches like what I just told
you. TO groups of workers. Mhm. They began laughing.
Because for the first time instead of feeling frightened
by the threat we can't tax the rich, they
began to understand. That when the employer threatens you.
You have a a threat you can give back
to the employer. You don't have to crawl away
feeling defeated. You make a counterthreat. You threaten us
by not paying your taxes or closing your business.
We'll take over your business. Keep it open, only
it will now be a worker co op celebrated
by the government, and you will have lost everything.
You wanna play games, you wanna make threats, there's
the workers began clapping. The idea had never been
presented to them before, but all I'm doing when
I tell workers that. IS I'm bringing to workers
an awareness of the power they always had. They
just have to know how to use it.
So, let me ask you now, is it possible
for anyone to become rich without exploiting the labor
of others, at least to some extent,
if we allow it, that's a question for every
society to decide. Let me give you an example.
Let's suppose um a person invents something new. Let's
take uh Elon Musk. Let's give him the credit,
by the way, he doesn't deserve it, but let's
give him the credit of having invented the electric-powered
automobile, OK? And let's say that we in society
believe that he should be given a nice reward
for having invented something that is useful to the
human race. So we don't have to burn oil
and gas, and we can have electricity, and it's,
it, it, it's better for our health. And we
will make a decision. We're going to give him
a big chunk of money. We're going to make
him a rich person, so we could give him,
let's say, $10 million. Wow, that's really nice. Or
maybe we have a debate and we decide, let's
be even more generous, we're going to give him
$20 million. OK. Now, we make a factory which
makes electric cars. There's no need for him to
be the boss of that factory. None Many other
people can do it. You know how I know
that? Many other people are doing it now. He
doesn't preside in his factory. He hasn't even gone
into that factory. But 6 times in the last
10 years, and then with photographers because it's a
public relations event. There's no need for him to
be owning shares of stock. That's a social invention.
So the answer is, yeah, we could make Mr.
Elon Musk reasonably rich. But then we could have
the benefits of what he has done with the
of shared across the whole society. You know, if
Mr. Musk were here, and if he were honest,
he's not here, and I, I don't know if
he's honest or not, but if he were honest,
he would admit. That his invention was the last
in a long line. People had invented electricity long
before him and batteries long before him, and the
automobile long before him, the people whose ingenuity give
us the electric car. ARE not just Elon Musk,
he's the latest in a long chain. If you
wanted to really honor all the people responsible for
the electric car, you'd have to go back in
history for 200 years of people who made contributions.
You know, I give an example to my students
that may help you understand this. Suppose there's a
flood in your community, the river rises and the
water, so everybody stops what they're doing and they
make a line with sandbags. And so the first
person gets a sandbag, hands it to the next
person, to the next person, to the next, until
they get to the, to the man or the
woman right by the river who puts it there.
And finally, you put up enough, and the river
is held back, and the grateful community raises $10,000.
Because of the gratitude for the people who stood
there for hours with the sandbags, and they take
the $10,000 and they give it to the last
person standing next to the river. But that's crazy.
All of the people, every one of them did
the same thing. Why are you giving it to
the last? Everybody should share in it. And if
the last person standing there is an honest person,
that's what they would want too. Imagine what kind
of a person snatches the $10,000 the community's gratitude,
and runs away and keeps it for himself. That's
immoral. Mr. Musk is immoral to have that kind
of wealth. Remember, if Mr. Musk has 3 or
$400 billion that means he decides what to do
with that. Not all the people in the community.
Many of whom keep this community going, they don't.
He alone. Makes that decision. That's not democratic, and
there's no notion of democracy that could ever justify
that level. Of power in the hands of one
person relative to the power in the hands of
everybody else.
OK, so let me then just ask you one
last question because I'm also getting mindful of your
time here, Doctor Wolf. Thank you. Do you, do
you think that billionaires should exist? I mean, should
we allow billionaires to exist because It is such
an absurd, a ridiculous amount of wealth that even
if you do the calculations as to how long
it would take for a person who earns minimum
wage or even the the median wage to become
a billionaire. I mean, it's absolutely ridiculous. I mean,
should billionaires Exist, uh, does it make any sense
for us to allow that to happen? Also, not
only because of the huge amount of wealth, but
also because of the power they can, uh, use
that wealth to leverage,
right? Well, uh, I, I was just gonna respond
by mentioning that, so I'll make it very brief.
If you allow billionaires. For example, we have about
1000 billionaires, more or less here in the United
States. So we have a population of 330 million
people and 1000 people have a billion dollars of
wealth or more, OK? So, it is a tiny,
tiny, tiny, tiny percentage of the people, but with
those billions, they can buy the political system. Elon
Musk gave Donald Trump 200+ million dollars for his
campaign, and he wouldn't have won the presidency without
it. In other words, when you have billionaires, you
are teaching people, whether you admit it to yourself
or not, that you are part of a tiny
minority, and that the mass of people who don't
have a billion dollars, who don't even have a
million dollars, the vast majority of Americans don't have
anything like that kind of money. I'm talking about
$1 million not $1 billion let alone $1 trillion.
You're, you're vulnerable. The billionaires know how vulnerable they
are, and that's why they buy the politicians. That's
why they buy the think tanks. They want the
culture full of articles, books, movies, songs, everything imaginable.
To protect them against the possibility that the majority
of people will one day say billionaires are not
acceptable. And by the way, that will happen one
day, and then it will be over, and we
will look back on this age. With incredulity, just
like we look back now on ancient village economies,
none of whom had billionaires or anything like it,
so we don't need it. We never did. It's
not necessary. We understand the power of those with
the money to use it to hold on to
their money, which they are smart enough to do.
But I don't think we need them, not at
all. They are a burden on our society. When
I think of the $1 trillion that are now
going to be given to Elon Musk, who's already
got $300 billion. It's really hard not to get
angry. Think how many people could be helped with
$1 trillion over the next 10 years. You could
do a long way to go back and rebuild
Gaza. You could go back and help the worst
famines in Africa. You could, you could help people
in dramatic ways. $1 trillion is an enormous amount
of money, but instead, in this capitalist system, When
you know all the good $1 trillion could do,
you're allowing a corporation to give that money to
the person who already has more money than the
rest of us. That's beyond immoral, that is so
outrageous that I feel confident in predicting that when
the social explosions come. One of their targets will
be this situation.
OK, so Doctor Wolf, let, let's wrap it up
here. I know that you only have uh just
a few, a couple of minutes left, so thank
you so much for taking the time to come
on the show again. And of course I will
be leaving links to your books and particularly understanding
capitalism, which I think is the latest one, and
also to democracy at work and your YouTube channel
and all the other places where people can find
you on the internet.
Thank you very much, Ricardo, and again, thank you
for having a program like this. It is a,
it's a pleasure to participate.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Enlights, Learning and
Development done differently. Check their website at lights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters,
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Mulleran, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seaz Olaf,
Alex, Adam Cassel, Matthew Whittingberrd, Arnaud Wolf, Tim Hollis,
Eric Elena, John Connors, Philip Forrest Connolly. Then Dmitri
Robert Windegerru Inai Zu Mark Nevs, Colin Holbrookfield, Governor,
Michel Stormir, Samuel Andre, Francis Forti Agnun, Svergoo, and
Hal Herzognon, Michel Jonathan Labrarinth, John Yardston, and Samuel
Cerri, Hines, Mark Smith, John Ware, Tom Hammel, Sardusran,
David Sloan Wilson, Yasilla Dezara Romain Roach, Diego Londono
Correa. Yannik Punter DaRosmani, Charlotte Blis Nicole Barbaro, Adam
Hunt, Pavlostazevski, Alec Baka Madison, Gary G. Alman, Semov,
Zal Adrian Yei Poltontin, John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward
Hall, Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franco Bartolotti, Gabriel P
Scortez or Suliliski, Scott Zachary Fish, Tim Duffyani Smith,
and Wiseman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georg Jarno,
Luke Lovai, Georgios Theophannus, Chris Williamson, Peter Wolozin, David
Williams, Dio Costa, Anton Ericsson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw,
Marie Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Bangalore atheists, Larry D. Lee
Junior. Old Eringbon. Esterri, Michael Bailey, then Spurber, Robert
Grassy, Zigoren, Jeff McMahon, Jake Zul, Barnabas Raddix, Mark
Kempel, Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Story, Kimberly Johnson,
Benjamin Galbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brendan, Nicholas Carlson, Ismael
Bensleyman. George Ekoriati, Valentine Steinmann, Per Crawley, Kate Van
Goler, Alexander Obert, Liam Dunaway, BR, Massoud Ali Mohammadi,
Perpendicular, Jannes Hetner, Ursula Guinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsov,
Sean Nelson, Mike Levin, and Jos Necht. A special
thanks to my producers Iar Webb, Jim Frank, Lucas
Stink, Tom Vanneden, Bernardine Curtis Dixon, Benedict Mueller, Thomas
Trumbull, Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carlo Montenegro, Al
Nick Cortiz, and Nick Golden, and to my executive
producers, Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanis, and Rosie.
Thank you for all.